See, unless it rains,
people do not ask about the strength of the roof.
And health insurance is also one such
instrument.  As long as everything is going well, the
policy seems like a formality.
But when an emergency occurs, the hospital bill is
in your hands.  Then you understand
how big the gap between the brochure and the bill can be.
We compare the cameras before buying a phone.
Before buying a car, we
also check the mileage.  But when it
comes to health policy, people
decide just by looking at the premium and brand
and then when at the time of discharge, they find
words like non-payables and copay written in the bill, their
face turns pale
and this happens because
health insurance is not a one-size-fits-all
product.  Every person's best
plan is different.  Your perfect plan
depends on your risk pattern.  If
you are a single professional then the policy for you will be
different.  If you are a young couple
planning a family, you will need
maternity and high cover flexibility.
Or if you
want to buy a plan for your parents, the
priorities change completely.  That's why
just choosing health insurance does
n't work.  Rather, choosing the best plan is what
matters and the best plan is going to be
different for all of us.  But now the next
problem is that out of thousands of policies in the market,
which one is best for you?
Who will tell you this?  No one has that much
time or patience and for this very
purpose we have partnered
with Ditto because I want
you not to make any mistake for which
you have to regret later.  You can
also book a free 30-minute consultation call with them.  Yes
, there are no charges.
And these people will not even spam you later to get the policy.
Moreover, there
is no commission pressure here.  There
is no unnecessary upselling either.  IRDAI
certified experts look at your actual life
situation and tell you which
plan is perfect for you and why.  And the
biggest thing is that these people handle the end to end process with you.
From documentation to claim approval.
When there is a hospital admission, Ditto coordinates with
both the insurer and the hospital on your behalf.  This
means that your mind should be
tension free and your focus should be only on recovery.
And Ditto does
not charge you anything for all this work.  It is totally free
of cost.
Ditto's work doesn't end when you buy your policy, but rather
starts at the same time.  Whenever a
claim arises in the future, they stand by you.
So imagine you have found a trusted
expert who
simplifies the entire insurance world on your behalf and
supports you with clarity, no calls, no pressure.  And the
link to book a call is
given in the description.  Go and click on it,
fill in your details and avail your free call.
And yes, to make your work a little
easier, I have already shortlisted two plans.
Both are
champions of their segments.  In today's video,
I will compare these two side by side and
tell you which plan
is perfect for you.  So,
please watch the video till the end because today
you may take that life decision with which you can
completely protect yourself, your family and your loved ones.
But before going further, till now
only 25% people have
subscribed to this channel.  So brother,
subscribe quickly and press the bell, otherwise
you will miss such powerful videos.
See, there are two types of people living in every house.
One who plans everything in advance.
Whose travel bag contains
everything from passport to power bank.
Also download the boarding pass two days before the flight.  We
also check the weather
and reach the airport 2 hours in advance.
These are the same people who have
every meeting, EMI and birthday
reminder set perfectly in their phone calendar.  And the others are those
who say brother, we will see.  Who
do the packing when the cab has arrived at the gate.
And then at the airport I realize
that I had left the charger at home.
These are the same people who have learned to remain chill even in rush.
But in every trip, one or the other
crisis is waiting for them.
Now this is the reality of insurance also.  One
category is for those who
want predictability.
Want everything under control.  Want smooth and reliable.
And the second category is of those who
know how to accept the shocks of life and bounce back every time.  HDFC Ago's
Optima Secure and Neeva BPA's Reuro 2.0
fit perfectly in both these categories.
If you look at them from outside, both the
plans are stop rated.  It is comprehensive
and the basic coverage in it is almost the same.
Both the
plans are clean and customer friendly even in the basic framework of the policy.  There are no co-
op clauses, no room rent
restrictions, no disease-wise sub-
limits.  You
can get the standard of treatment you want.
Without any billing surprises.  Pre and
post hospitalization coverage
is also solid in both of them.  It is between 60 and 180 days.
In today's times, when the cost of medicines,
tests and physiotherapy after surgery
exceeds the actual hospitalization,
this continuity coverage becomes a blessing.
Day care procedures, modern
treatments and AYUSH coverage are also
available up to the sum insured in both the policies.   This
means that if you want to undergo robotic surgery or laser
therapy or
choose Ayurvedic treatment, both the plans
give you complete freedom.  First,
understand the brand story.  HDFC Ago is a brand
whose name itself brings to mind the first thing that comes to mind:
reliability.  This company, started in 2002,
is a joint venture.  On one side
is India's trusted name HDFC and on the other side is
Germany's Ergo International which is a
part of the Music RE Group.  This means that the DNA of this plan
itself is a mix of German engineer discipline
and Indian style reliability.
Its claim settlement ratio is around 97
to 98% and over 13,000 network
hospitals mean that whenever an emergency arises, the
process runs smoothly and the
chances of nightmares like claim rejection are greatly reduced.
And on the other side is Neevapa which was
earlier known as Max Bupa.
Launched in 2008, the brand was
created with a single focus.  Only health
insurance, no motor insurance, no
travel, no distractions, pure focus
on health.  It has a claim settlement ratio of around 92%
and a
strong national footprint with over 10,000 network hospitals.
So if you are looking for a
modern digital, health-first insurance
with a policy that is bold and future-
ready, then Niva BPA will clearly be more
exciting.  So, if we talk about service
reliability and process transparency,
HDFC Ergo is slightly ahead.
This is an insurer where
system driven processes and German
precision come together to create a predictable experience.
When you or your parents are
admitted to the hospital,
you need a dependable system, not the fine print of the policy,
and HDFC
Ergo delivers just that with its consistency.
Niva Bupa's focus is more on innovation.
They have set
a new benchmark in the market by introducing bold features like Reor Forever.
Meaning, on one hand there is proven
reliability and wide network and on the other hand there is
creative innovation and product
agility.  Mercedes type stability on one side
and Tesla type innovation on the other.  But
when we try to understand the concepts of growth and restoration,
then these
two policies become completely different.  Both
are powerful but their stories are different.
Optima Secure's plus benefit is
that of a disciplined investor.  It's quiet
simple but works wonders.
Increases your base cover by 50% every year.  Whether a
claim is made or not, it doubles in 2 years.
Meaning, if you have
taken a plan of Rs 10 lakh, then in just 2 years
it will become worth Rs 20 lakh.  Come inflation,
medical costs increase,
everything is already adjusted for Optima Secure.  But Rush
2.0's no claim bonus follows a slightly different philosophy.
This is a performance based reward
system.  If you have a claim-free year,
your sum insured gets a jump of 50%.
But if a claim is made, that
growth stops.  That means here
performance is rewarded more than discipline.
This is a solid top-up system for those who don't claim every year.  But
you don't get the comfort of claim-proof growth like Optima here.  So in one line,
Optima bonus is like a steady SIP.
Your balance will continue to grow whether there is a claim or not.
But Reshore's bonus is a
performance incentive.  If the year is claim free then you will
get bonus otherwise it will be paused.  Now let's
talk about restoration.  That is, the
moment when your sum insured
is exhausted and the policy decides what to do next.
In Optima Secure, the
restore benefit is 100% once in every policy year.
Whether you have exhausted your sum
insured completely or half.  Meaning,
if you have taken a plan of Rs 10 lakh and it gets
used, then the policy will
refill Rs 10 lakh once again.  If you
want more security, you can take Unlimited Restore add-
on so that it can be refilled
again and again.  Like an
automatic recharge system for health but in ReShor 2.0
you get a jackpot called ReShor Forever.  The
policy gets activated in a superhero mode as soon as your first claim is made.
After that, the
coverage will automatically refill whenever a claim is made without
any limit.  It feels like a recharge free Jio
plan.  Once turned on, you will
never have to turn it off.  Imagine a
joint family where parents, spouse and
children are all under the same policy.  The cover will never expire even if one
member gets hospitalized after another.  The
policy will keep getting
reloaded automatically again and again.  As if there is an
invisible safety net ready to catch you every time.
Now
talking about hospital bills, the real villains are
gloves, syringes, PPE kits, surgical
pads.  All these come under the category of non-payable items
and fall like a surprise bomb at the end of the bill.
But
Optima Secure has changed the game here
through its Protect benefit.  It
covers even the smallest things.  Meaning, at the
time of discharge, after seeing the bill, you do not get shocked but
say thank God.  There is
no such dedicated feature in Rushor.  But the company has
put its session in the form of an add-on.
Whose name is Safeguard Add On.  This also
covers non-payable items like consumables.
Just like Optima Secure's
Protect benefit.  These
seem like small things.  But when the bill
increases by ₹1 lakh due to consumables, then you understand
how important this feature is.
Optima Secure is like a disciplined gym trainer when it comes to preventive health checkups.
Every year he tells you to go and get a
checkup done.  As your
sum insured increases, the checkup
allowance also increases.  This plan works not only
during illness but
also during wellness.  This
benefit comes inbuilt in Rushor 2.0 and you do
not have to buy any add-on separately.  This means the policy
gives you the opportunity to proactively screen every year without any waiting.  Now
Optima Secure is clear in terms of waiting period also.  There
is an initial waiting period of 30 days.  Two years for specific diseases
and three years for pre-existing
conditions.  Absolutely transparent.
No fine print.  No drama.
Air ambulance is covered up to Rs 5 lakh
which can be a literal life saver in intercity emergencies.
On the add-ons front, the
Optima Secure seems to be a complete buffet.
Parenthood add-on for maternity and IVF coverage.
Optima Well Being for unlimited
doctor visits and lab discounts
, Aggregate for deductible premium
discounts and ABCD Chronic
Care for those living with asthma, BP,
cholesterol and diabetes.
Chronic illness is also covered in just 30 days.
This
sounds like the instant noodle version of health insurance.  Quick,
simple and effective.  This
is definitely the brand ambassador of Reshore Simplicity.  But this does
not mean that its features are less.  The
mantra of this policy is Smart Base
Flexible Options.  Meaning the base plan
is simple and powerful.  But if you want, you can
customize it according to your lifestyle.
Like the Safeguard add-on which covers
consumables like gloves, syringes, PPE kits etc.
DM rider is
for people who have diabetes or hypertension.
This reduces the waiting period for those conditions
from 3 years to 30 days.  And
then comes the deductible option which allows you to
reduce the premium if you already have
a base policy or buffer fund.   The
Hospital Cash Add-on also gives you an
extra daily allowance for each day of hospitalization
and the Personal Accident Add-
on creates a financial cushion against accidental death and disability.
Talking about premiums, yes Optima
Secure is a bit expensive but honestly
its premium is a part of its personality.
Day One Double Cover High Claim Settlement
Protection of Consumables and
Trust Track by HDFC Ergo.  He wears a policy suit and
politely says, I am expensive but I am
worth it.  This Reassure
is comparatively affordable.  And if medical expenses are occurring regularly in your house, then
this
policy works in full money recovery mode.
In simple words,
Optima gives you power from day one and
Rushor provides protection till the day is done.  One has the
comfort of planning.  The second is
confidence in resilience.  And the
real rule of health insurance is that life
is unpredictable but the policy should be predictable.
So pick your fighter very very wisely.  The
final question is
which plan is best for whom?  So imagine you are
a young couple.  Both are working
professionals.  You have just got married and
want to secure your future.
In such a situation, Optima Secure gives you double protection from day one.
If you have taken a plan of Rs 10 lakh, then
your cover becomes Rs 20 lakh from the very first day.  This
means that in case of any emergency,
you will not have to wait to receive the bonus.
Its parenthood add-on is
quite thoughtful and covers maternity and IVF
cycles.  This means that this
policy is not just about health protection.  Can
also
become a silent partner in family planning.  It also covers
small and irritating expenses like gloves, ridges, PPE kits in hospital bills
through the Protect Benefit.  That's why
Optimus Secure is perfect for those
who live life with structure.  Be it
planners, salaried couples or
young parents, reliability and
smooth claim process are of paramount importance.  If you
want to buy a policy for your parents, then
Optima Secure becomes a strong choice there too.  The
biggest challenge for senior citizens is to remain
hassle free.  Cashless settlement and
access to trusted hospitals.  HDFCO
is advantageous here as it has a
hospital network of over 13,000 and a
claim settlement ratio of 9798%.  Here's where the magic
is seen.  When parents are admitted, it is
not the policy clauses but a
dependent insured that matters to them.  Optima
Secure is best for families where peace
of mind is the priority and you want
everything to be
handled without delay in case of an emergency.  Features like lifetime
renewability, no copay and air ambulance
also make it senior friendly.
This plan is for those who
trust the system and want
their
protection to continue seamlessly every year once it is set up.
But imagine you live in a joint family
, you have parents, a spouse and children.
If everything is covered under a single policy, then
a child's surgery, a
parent's operation and a minor accident can
all happen in the same year.  So
in such cases, ReSure's ReSure Forever feature
becomes a life saver.  Once activated,
your cover will be automatically refilled after every claim.
That too
unlimited number of times.  Imagine that
you are sitting in a restaurant and you
pay once and your coffee or
tea gets refilled again and again.  This means that
even if there are three hospitalizations in a single year, the
policy will not lapse.  This plan
is perfect for families where
unpredictability is high and
where a never-ending safety net
becomes necessary.  Let us take another example.   For
example, if you are a self-employed professional
or a business owner whose income sometimes
increases and sometimes decreases.  Such people say that
life is never linear.  Rear
is made for them because this plan is also
flexible and resilient like them.  Their
Booster Plus feature
also carries forward unused coverage to the next year.
Due to which, your cover can reach Rs 50 lakh in a few years from the remaining Rs 10 lakh.
If you
are disciplined and claim rarely,
this policy becomes a compound investment.
The more you don't use it, the more it will
grow.  This plan
is perfect for families where life
is unpredictable, where children are young, parents
are elderly, and medical surprises are quite frequent.
Simply put, Optimus Secure
is for those who operate with a prevention mindset.
For whom reliability
and structure are the biggest comfort.  And
Reassure is for those with a resilience
mindset who bounce back no matter
how many times life tests them.
One plan
offers predictability and the other
endurance, and
both qualities are very priceless in the world of medical insurance.
And this is what should happen brother because
ultimately the real purpose of health insurance is
not to reduce the bill.  Tension has to be reduced.
So brother, now stop making excuses and
choose the policy which you feel is right according to your needs.  If you are still
confused, then talk to the expert team of Ditto.
Arrange a free call.  The
link is given in the description.
And yes, the most important thing is that you
learn not from your own mistakes but from the mistakes of others.
So that is why health insurance is a
very important part of life.  We
compared the two insurance bills.  I have
told you both the scenarios.  I have
told you who it is right for and who it is not.
What do you think, please tell me in the comment section.
If you have any
questions regarding health insurance or any other
plan, then let me
know in the comment section.  I'll
cover those as well in the next video as a question and
answer.  I promise that if
I get a thousand questions, I will make a separate
video in which
I will take all the questions and answer them all.
Share this video with all your friends
who do not have clarity on
how to take health insurance.  This is Sanjay
Kathuria signing off till the next video.   Hail
India.